[Music]
ten crucial mistakes that shorten our
pets lives our pets are our babies we
pamper them spoil them and let's be
honest
would rather stay at home and cuddle
them on a Friday night instead of
meeting up with our human friends
there's no denying that fur babies are
our family but unfortunately a lot of
people unwittingly make some serious
mistakes in their pet care that can lead
to all kinds of health problems and even
a shorter lifespan none of us want that
so let's see what major no-nose you
should avoid when it comes to taking
care of your pet and what you should do
instead before we get started don't
forget to click the subscribe button and
turn on the little notification bell so
that you don't miss any of our daily
updates here on the bright side of life
[Music]
mistake number one not being picky about
food whether you feed your pet dry or
wet food be selective about the
ingredients always read the label first
before choosing a brand it shouldn't
contain any flavoring agents corn or
GMOs as for a natural diet always
consult a vet before you decide what
food you're gonna give your pet for
example even though cats eat plenty of
raw meat in the wild it's actually not
good for domesticated kitties also
definitely avoid over feeding sadly this
is a real common problem among owners
that can lead to serious health issues
in their pets
always check the serving size and
calorie count on the packaging and
finally always make sure your pets have
access to fresh clean water mistake
number two rarely taking pets to the vet
don't neglect regular visits to the vet
even if your furry friends hate you for
it this is the only way to prevent
diseases
and catch any sort of problems before
they get too serious make sure to keep
up with regular vaccinations and shots
to protect both your pet and your family
sure vet bills can get pretty expensive
but that's simply part of being a
responsible pet owner mistake number
three
allowing pets access to open doors and
windows unless you have a fenced-in yard
that's regularly treated to kill any
parasites your pets shouldn't have open
access to the street first of all you
risk your pop or kitty running away and
getting lost or hurt plus if you live in
an apartment building on the upper
floors this can result in a tragic
situation especially when it comes to
cats maybe their feline instincts kick
in when they spot a bird but they'll
unknowingly leap out a window in pursuit
of their prey to avoid a catastrophe
make sure your pets are securely indoors
mistake number four not spaying or
neutering this decision is a personal
one that's entirely up to a pet owner
however vets do recommend spaying and
neutering your animals because it
actually helps them live long and happy
lives you avoid any unexpected
pregnancies the problems that come with
females in heat and the issue of urine
marking in males the only thing you
should watch out for when it comes to
sterilizing your cat is excess weight
since many kitties become lazy and gain
extra pounds after the surgery in that
case you just need to be careful with
their diet and make sure they get plenty
of physical activity mistake number five
neglecting grooming and dental hygiene
just like humans cats and dogs need
regular oral care start brushing their
teeth at an early age so that they get
used to the process they make special
toothbrushes and pastes for animals that
you can get at any pet store ideally you
should get your pets teeth checked by a
vet at least once a year especially if
it has a bad odor as for grooming
different breeds have different
requirements for example hairless pets
don't require any brushing obviously but
their skin needs to be washed frequently
pets with short fur require minimal care
and ones with long hair should be
brushed daily if you don't take care of
their fur regularly long haired pets can
get
comfortable matting and even skin
diseases and whatever breed they may be
all cats and dogs need regular nail
trimming mistake number 6 neglecting
bath time or doing it incorrectly
bathing is a necessity when it comes to
pets cats of course are a little more
self-sufficient when it comes to staying
clean so they don't really need to be
washed if you do decide to shampoo your
kitty once or twice a year is enough as
for our rambunctious canine companions
they'll need to be washed a little more
often about once every three months of
course you can wash dogs more often
especially when Fido has just had a dirt
rolling session in the backyard just be
sure to use gentle shampoos if you have
to wash your dog every other week only
wash your dog's head at the very end
otherwise you pooch can get cold and
start shivering avoid getting water in
its ears especially if you have a
floppy-eared breed since they're more
prone to ear infections mistake number
seven given your pets table food all
vets agree that giving your pet people
food is a terrible idea your pets
digestive system simply can't handle
most of the stuff we humans eat I know
it's hard to resist those big puppy eyes
or that intimidating feline glare but
just to remind yourself that you're
doing what's best for your furry friend
each time you say no mistake number
eight not giving enough attention your
four-legged housemate needs your love
and attention sure most cats are a
little more independent but your kitty
still needs to be shown love as for dogs
oh boy do they crave your attention and
this is totally natural for man's best
friend
pets need socialization and human
interaction to develop physically
emotionally and socially otherwise they
can become easily scared aggressive and
disobedient and don't forget to tell
them how much of a good boy or girl they
are that's critical
this big number nine not checking their
caller time can get away from us and our
fur babies grow faster than we like them
to Plus like people they put on weight
so be sure to check if their color is
too tight from time to time for cats and
small breed dogs you should be able to
slip one finger between their collar and
skin for medium to large breed dogs two
fingers should fit
also make sure your dog's collar isn't
too loose before you two go out on a
walk otherwise your dog o might slip
right out and run away mistake number
ten keeping a dog cooped up all the time
dogs of all ages and breeds should have
enough time outside to move around
interact with of their dogs and be free
to explore if they don't get enough
physical activity and stimulation your
pup can get overweight which leads to a
whole slew of health problems plus all
that pent-up energy might get released
in the form of chewing up your shoes and
furniture but indoor cats need exercise
and mental stimulation too that's where
things like cat trees and plenty of toys
come in of course some of us have other
types of pets like parakeets and guinea
pigs so let's take a look at the do's
and don'ts of owning these little guys
pirate kids don't keep them locked up in
their cage constantly birds need
physical activity and some kind of
entertainment they are social creatures
and need at least 30 minutes a day of
games and communication don't focus
their diet around seeds you can give
your birdy fresh veggies fruits parsley
and even twigs this nutritionally
balanced diet will help keep them
healthy and you'll also notice an
improvement in their mood don't hold
them between hands this stresses them
out you should carry your bird on your
finger or open-palm guinea pigs
a very important thing you should keep
in mind when buying a guinea pig is that
it needs plenty of room to move around a
cage that's too small will detrimental e
affect the quality of life and health of
your piggy trim their fur when they're
shedding and when it's hot
actually you can shave it short to give
their skin some relief vets recommend
cutting their nails once every six
months like any animal big or small diet
is key
guinea pigs can get terminally sick when
they're fed the wrong diet their food
should be 60% hay 20% seeds and 20%
fresh grass vegetables and fruit your
piggy should also have access to
drinking water with vitamin C drops in
it do you have a pet what kind let's
discuss our furry friends in the comment
section below we hope this video has
been helpful for you if it has give it a
like and share it with your pet owning
friends click subscribe to stay tuned in
on the bright side of life
[Music]